A sports analytics mHealth app

Health and fitness apps have become ubiquitous as smart devices become a major necessity in the day-to-day life. However, an obvious issue with mobile health (mHealth) apps is that a substantial portion of them lack a scientific foundation and instead utilize experiential stratagems. Hence, the acquired data becomes unreliable. In sports, where data collection is extensive, this becomes a vital factor for success due to the increasing usage of mHealth. Therefore, the Swedish School of Sport and Health Sciences has, in collaboration with other organizations, created the Perceived Load and Fitness Scale Questionnaire. The purpose of this questionnaire is to function as a marker for overtraining and, thus injury prevention and intervention will become a simpler and more efficient task. A computer (PC) software was developed for the questionnaire; however, a mobile version was required and, thus, requested. Consequently, the mHealth prototype app eValuate was developed. Research, in the form of literature studies, and dissection of other apps for additional information contributed to the development of it. The prototype was coded using Java with Android Studio as the IDE and Cloud Firebase Firestore as a database solution. The finished prototype, eValuate, had to be trialled to ensure that it satisfies the criteria. Thus, the Mobile Application Rating Scale was employed as the most appropriate means of evaluation. A small-scale study was planned to trial the prototype by utilizing this scale. However, due to unforeseen events, only four respondents could provide feedback. The prototype performed admirably and scored 3.8 stars out of 5 stars. Nonetheless, the testing sample is too small to draw any real conclusions. 
